[Merged by Bors] - Deploy default and support custom affinities (#241)
stackabletech/airflow-operator: docs/modules/airflow/pages/pod_placement.adoc

= Pod Placement

You can configure the Pod placement of Airflow instances as described in xref:concepts:pod_placement.adoc[].

Default Pod placement constraints for worker Pods:

[source,yaml]
----
  affinity:
    podAffinity:
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      - podAffinityTerm:
          labelSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app.kubernetes.io/instance: cluster_name
              app.kubernetes.io/name: airflow
          topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
        weight: 20
    podAntiAffinity:
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      - podAffinityTerm:
          labelSelector:
            matchLabels:

>               app.kubernetes.io/component: worker
>               app.kubernetes.io/instance: cluster-name
>               app.kubernetes.io/name: airflow
>           topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
>         weight: 70
> ----
> 
> Default Pod placement constraints for web server Pods:
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>   affinity:
>     podAffinity:
>       preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
>       - podAffinityTerm:
>           labelSelector:
>             matchLabels:
>               app.kubernetes.io/instance: airflow
>               app.kubernetes.io/name: cluster_name
>           topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
>         weight: 20
>     podAntiAffinity:
>       preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
>       - podAffinityTerm:
>           labelSelector:
>             matchLabels:
>               app.kubernetes.io/component: webserver
>               app.kubernetes.io/instance: cluster_name
>               app.kubernetes.io/name: airflow
>           topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
>         weight: 70
> ----
> 
> Default Pod placement constraints for scheduler Pods:
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>   affinity:
>     podAffinity:
>       preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
>       - podAffinityTerm:
>           labelSelector:
>             matchLabels:
>               app.kubernetes.io/instance: airflow
>               app.kubernetes.io/name: cluster_name
>           topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
>         weight: 20
>     podAntiAffinity:
>       preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
>       - podAffinityTerm:
>           labelSelector:
>             matchLabels:
>               app.kubernetes.io/component: scheduler
>               app.kubernetes.io/instance: cluster_name
>               app.kubernetes.io/name: airflow
>           topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
>         weight: 70
> ----
> 
> In the examples above `cluster-name` is the name of the Airflow custom resource that owns these Pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the Pod placement of the Airflow pods as described in xref:concepts:pod_placement.adoc[].

The default affinities created by the operator are:

1. Co-locate all the Airflow Pods (weight 20)
2. Distribute all Pods within the same role (worker, webserver, scheduler) (weight 70)
```
